Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited - Environmental, Social and Governance - Environment - Climate Change Skip to main content Français High Contrast Search About Us Our Leadership Team Board of Directors Consumer Brands Division Supplier Opportunities Triangle Our Banners Canadian Tire Retail SportChek Mark's Canadian Tire Financial Services Helly Hansen Gas + Atmosphere Sports Experts Pro Hockey Life Trio Hockey PartSource CT REIT Party City Careers Corporate Careers Tech Careers Retail Careers Campus Careers Dealer and Gas+ Retailer Opportunities CTR Dealer Careers Gas+ Retailer Opportunities Distribution Centre Careers Call Centre Careers Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Environmental, Social and Governance Our Approach ESG Reporting People & Community People & Community Overview Community Impact Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Talent & Culture Environment Environment Overview Climate Change Circularity: Operational Waste Circularity: Packaging & Product Waste Responsible Sourcing Responsible Sourcing Overview Sustainable Supply Chain Management Human Rights & Social Responsibility Product Safety & Quality Governance Governance Overview Business Ethics Corporate Governance & Risk Management Privacy & Data Security Investors Financial Reporting Quarterly Results Annual Disclosures Financial News Events & Presentations Events Presentations Shareholders Stock Information Dividend Information Analyst Coverage Debtholders Credit Ratings Short-Term Debt Long-Term Debt Capital Management Glacier Credit Card Trust Corporate Governance Our Approach to Corporate Governance Board of Directors Mandates and Position Descriptions Constating Documents and Policies Investor Resources FAQs Code of Conduct Email Alerts Request Printed Materials Videos Contact IR Media News Releases Media Highlights Product Recalls Media Inquiries COVID-19 Climate Change Environment Overview Climate Change Circularity: Operational Waste Circularity: Packaging & Product Waste Our Commitment We are committed to integrating climate change considerations into our
        decision-making processes to support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in our operations. Climate change is caused by both natural processes and human influences. However, since the Industrial Revolution, the impact of human activity on our climate – through land use and activities that increase greenhouse gas (GHG) concentration in the atmosphere – has been the predominant driver of climate change. As a large Canadian retailer, we understand the need to consider the effects of climate change in how we operate, and work to reduce our GHG emissions. Did you know? We quantify and report our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Our GHG emissions are
                reported in CO 2 e or carbon dioxide equivalent, which expresses all such emissions in a common unit,
                describing their global warming impact relative to that of CO 2 . For a full description of our reporting
                boundaries, and methodology, please refer to our 2021 Climate Data
                    Supplement . We want to play our part in protecting our planet for today and for future generations. We recognize that we need to continue to invest in reducing our operational emissions and find new ways to work with our value chain partners to enable reductions across our entire footprint, including the emissions associated with the wide assortment of products we sell. By understanding the business risks of climate change, we are better positioned to adjust to the future, mitigate those risks and assess the opportunities that will arise as new technologies and products emerge. Understanding the business risks of climate change Following the release of the recommendations provided by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
                Disclosures, in 2018 and 2021, CTC worked with third parties to better understand the potential
                implications of climate risk on CTC’s assets and locations through climate risk and opportunity
                assessments. These exercises included scenario analyses which continue to inform our decision-making
                regarding climate strategy and investments. We Are Here to Make Life in Canada Better by reducing our contribution to
        Canada’s greenhouse gas emissions footprint, championing innovation and products that will support emissions
        reductions for our customers, and facilitating collaborative action with our suppliers and other stakeholders. Our Approach In order to understand how our business contributes to global emissions, we utilize industry models and company-specific data to estimate our energy consumption and resulting greenhouse gas emissions. This includes everything from the energy used to extract raw materials that make up the products we sell, to driving the last kilometres to complete deliveries to our customers’ homes. Our values in action: outcomes drive us We have been measuring the emissions of our business since 2010 with an increasing scope of measurement
              over time. This undertaking helps us understand the level of control or influence we have over those
              emissions. Measuring our emissions also enables us to set emissions reduction targets for specific areas
              of our footprint, as outlined further below. For more information on our GHG emissions footprint, please
              see our 2021 Climate Data Supplement . An archive of all our
                  past reports that speak to our historical emissions are also available online. In 2017, we set five-year GHG emissions reduction targets related to our buildings, operations, and product transportation activities. These targets pushed our company to find innovative ways to reduce emissions. This included making investments to improve the energy efficiency in our buildings, partnering with others in our supply chain, and investing in new technology. Setting targets to the end of 2022, CTC’s 100 th anniversary year, drove us to take actions that would otherwise not have been made and enabled us to understand and articulate new risks and assumptions that have informed future actions. An update on our progress against these 2022 targets can be found in the buildings and transportation sections
      below. In 2022 we set a new target to be reached by the end of 2030. Our pathway to the 2030 target includes new
      investments and builds on our learnings to date as we continue to support Canadian and global efforts to fight
      climate change. Our commitment to climate change includes our ongoing efforts to reduce our GHG emissions. We are retiring our previous GHG emissions reduction targets and taking a new approach for the future.  Starting in 2022, we are setting a new target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, which will include our Dealer-operated Canadian Tire stores, by 40% by 2030 relative to a 2020 baseline 1 . What are "Scope 1", "Scope 2", and "Scope 3" emissions? Scope 1 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from the combustion of on-site and mobile fuels that occur at, or are associated with, buildings and operations under CTC’s operational control. Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions that occur off-site from the production of energy, such as electricity, which is then purchased for use at buildings and operations under CTC’s operational control. Scope 3 Scope 3 emissions are other indirect emissions from CTC’s value chain that are not under our operational 
                      control (e.g., CT REIT properties with non-CTC tenants, and the manufacture and transportation of our products by third parties). Our plans to meet this goal focus on two key areas: switching sources for heating and cooling our buildings
          and switching to vehicles that operate on alternative fuels. Our pathway to reducing our heating and cooling
          emissions relies largely on proven technologies, with any gaps to be filled through the implementation of
          new technologies and, as necessary, investments in third-party efforts to reduce emissions (for example,
          power purchase agreements). In our transportation network, we will continue decarbonizing our PartSource
          fleet by purchasing lower carbon alternatives to replace our internal combustion vehicles, where feasible. Our values in action: we are innovators and entrepreneurs at
                  our core One example of innovating to reduce our GHG emissions is the new use case for our hydrogen fuel
                  production. We generate hydrogen through electrolysis at our Bolton distribution centre, and in 2020
                  we trialed hydrogen fuel cell-powered autonomous guided vehicles. These test and evaluation
                  exercises have the potential to greatly improve our operational energy efficiency and materials
                  handling productivity. Moving forward, we will continue to explore other ways that hydrogen fuel can
                  be integrated into our operations, including with respect to hydrogen-fueled trucks which we are
                  planning to evaluate later this year. We have started to analyze our supply chain for opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of the
          manufacturing of our products, with the intention to focus on areas where we have greater influence or can
          work collaboratively with others to create the scale needed to influence larger change. This will allow us
          to provide customers with options to purchase products that are manufactured with fewer emissions, enabling
          greater participation in global efforts to fight climate change. 2 We are reducing the GHG intensity of our buildings We are decarbonizing buildings that we own or lease, including our offices, stores and distribution centres
          within Canada, and planning to build new net-zero-ready stores as part of our store expansion program. We have achieved our previous GHG emissions reduction target In 2017, we set a goal to reduce GHG emissions from our buildings and operations by 22% by 2022, compared to our 2011 baseline. This target covered our corporate and non-corporate buildings: distribution centres, offices, stores 2 , and Dealer- and franchise-operated stores. As of the end of 2021, our investments in reducing GHG emissions from our buildings and operations, together with the purchase of renewable energy certificates, enabled us to achieve our goal. Our building-related GHG reduction activities have been particularly focused on energy-reducing initiatives such as lighting and building upgrades. For example, we have been investing in LED lighting, retrofitting our HVAC systems, and improving the thermal resistance of our building envelope. We also purchased a quantity of renewable energy from wind farms in Saskatchewan and British Columbia. Enhancing our HVAC systems In 2021, we started a retrofit of “smart” HVAC fan motors that increase efficiency and reduce motor
                  energy consumption by 67% compared to conventional motors. LED lighting for Mark’s In 2021, we completed our LED lighting retrofit at our corporate-operated Mark’s stores. Over the life of the project to date, we reduced energy consumption in these stores, saving $1.39 million in energy cost avoidance, and avoided 2,590 tonnes of CO 2 e GHG emissions, which contributed to meeting our previous emissions reduction target. Strategic investments like this will continue to save energy and reduce our GHG emissions over the useful life of the asset. Working together with CT REIT CT REIT is an unincorporated, closed-end real estate investment trust formed in 2013 which owns,
                  develops and leases income-producing commercial properties across Canada, primarily occupied or
                  anchored by Canadian Tire stores. As of December 31, 2021, CTC held a 69.0% effective interest in CT
                  REIT. Learn more about CT REIT here . CT REIT, working in collaboration with CTC, is committed to environmental sustainability. In 2021,
                  CT REIT conducted a climate risk assessment for its entire real estate portfolio and participated in
                  its first GRESB assessment. For more information on CT REIT’s ESG activities and practices, please
                  see their 2021 ESG Report . In 2018, CTC received LEED Gold certification by the Canada Green Building Council for our Bolton
          distribution centre. The environmentally sustainable and energy-efficient building contains green features
          such as on-site hydrogen generation to fuel mobile equipment and material handling vehicles using hydrogen
          fuel cells; an automated system that controls air flow and circulation while moderating temperatures; and
          the use of sustainable materials throughout construction, with over 25% of materials, by cost, containing
          recycled content, and 72% of materials, by cost, being locally sourced. Effective waste management practices
          were also used during construction, resulting in over 92% of construction waste being recycled or reused. We are also using our buildings to generate low-carbon energy. A total of 36,951 GJ of renewable electricity
          was generated and fed back to the Ontario grid from rooftop solar installations at our stores in 2021. Learn
          more about the results of our sustainability initiatives on our Sustainability Performance
              Report. 3 We are reducing transportation emissions Building on previous efforts, we continue to use both proven and new tactics to curb emissions of our
          transportation fleet, engage in strategic partnerships to optimize our operations, and explore innovative
          solutions to bring to scale. Update on our previous GHG emissions reduction target In 2017, we set a goal to keep GHG emissions across our entire product transportation footprint flat by the end of 2022, compared to our 2011 baseline. In 2021, emissions from product transportation were 10% higher than the baseline, but 6.4% lower than emissions in the prior year. Our overall increase in emissions compared to the baseline year of 2011 reflects the significant growth in our e-commerce business, which was unanticipated when we originally set our target. While we will continue to invest in the decarbonization of our product transportation network, we are retiring this 2022 stand-alone target. We are focusing on decarbonizing our buildings as this is where we believe we will have the greatest impact, and have set a new target to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40% by 2030 relative to a 2020 baseline. For example, in 2021, we acquired a 25% equity interest in Ashcroft Terminal, a transload facility in
          British Columbia. This investment reduces our GHG emissions around the Greater Vancouver Area by enabling
          our products to be shipped directly by rail from the port without the need for an intermediate trucking
          stop. In 2021, we also announced a partnership with NuPort Robotics, a Toronto-based autonomous trucking
          technology developer. The partnership will see our diesel-powered and electric semi-tractor trailers
          retrofitted with features such as automated driving capabilities, high-tech sensors, obstacle and collision
          avoidance technology, and touchscreen navigation. These capabilities will help drivers be safer and more
          fuel efficient, further reducing our GHG emissions. We also continue to ramp up our long combination vehicle operations, growing the fleet that can haul our
          larger 60-foot containers to nearly 1,000 vehicles, operating in four provinces. In addition, we are
          actively testing and preparing for a transition off diesel in our owned fleet as more options become
          available. For example, the transportation team has trialed the use of compressed natural gas, and is
          investing in electric tractors and setting up the infrastructure at our Bolton distribution centre to
          support the use of alternative fuels for our transport trucks. DECARBONIZATION OF OUR TRANSPORTATION FLEET We are also working on reducing our reliance on fossil fuels in our fleet. For example, our PartSource delivery team has been investing in plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). In 2021, we accomplished our goal of transitioning 18% of our PartSource operational fleet to PHEVs for a total of 76 PHEVs. The switch has resulted in a 40% reduction in fuel consumption for those vehicles. As part of our decarbonization plans, PartSource will continue to source and switch our remaining internal combustion
                        engine fleet vehicles to lower carbon alternatives like PHEVs as they become available. 4 We are making it easier for customers to reduce their own GHG emissions As a retailer, we know that we play a crucial role in supporting and enabling our customers to reduce their environmental impact. We are committed to helping customers meet their growing interest in more sustainable products and lifestyles. Through seeking out innovative and energy- and emissions-saving products, we can both strengthen our product assortment and enable our customers and others to play their part in reducing their own GHG emissions. In particular, we are focused on expanding our assortment of energy-saving products to help our customers
          reduce their energy costs and impact on the environment. One example of this is our Yardworks 48V
          battery-powered outdoor equipment line, which eliminates the need for gas or oil to power landscaping tools.
          Another is our “smart home” products, which help customers regulate and reduce power usage around their
          homes with minimal effort, as well as ENERGY STAR and WaterSense certified products. We are also expanding our assortment of products that support more climate-friendly lifestyles. This includes products such as solar panel kits, electric scooters, composters, LED lighting, and more. We offer environmentally-friendly products across many of our banners, and are beginning to group these products in a centralized location in their respective online stores to make it easier for our customers to find and access. Find some of our environmentally-friendly products here: Canadian Tire SportChek Atmosphere In partnership with provincial utility companies and the Government of Canada, we offer rebate incentives to
          our customers on hundreds of energy- and water-efficient household products. Through these rebate programs,
          customers contributed to 24,494 GJ of energy avoidance in 2021; that is equivalent to providing energy to
          240 homes for one year. In addition, customers have been able to save $421 million in energy bills since
          2011 by using these efficient household products. Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Near the “Horse and Buggy Parking Only” parking spots at the Mount Forest Canadian Tire, you will find a new EV charging station. As of 2021, we have installed nearly 300 EV charging stations in 83 locations across the country with assistance from our various partners, and are on track to add 300 more EV charging stations across over 60 locations by the end of 2022. 1 Our GHG emissions reduction target is based on a 2020 baseline of approximately 200,000 tonnes of CO 2 e. 2 Our buildings GHG emissions reduction target did not include Helly Hansen or Party City retail stores or office sites as those locations were acquired after we set this target. Unless otherwise indicated, information in this ESG Report is provided for the 2021 fiscal year. For further information on our approach to ESG reporting, including our Glossary, which sets out definitions of capitalized terms and acronyms that are not otherwise defined in this page, and our forward-looking information disclaimer, please click here . About our current ESG report Scope Our 2021 ESG Report is focused on the activities and outcomes of CTC and all entities controlled by it during the 2021 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2021), and unless otherwise indicated, information in this ESG Report
          should be read to apply to that time period. In light of the publication timing, this report also includes some updates that occurred in 2022, primarily as a result of significant work completed in 2021. Where relevant and
          appropriate, we also included stories and achievements from Canadian Tire Jumpstart Charities and our Dealers, franchisees and agents, all of whom we have close working relationships with, despite operating independently. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to employees across our ESG reporting include full-time and part-time employees of CTC, and do not include employees of CT REIT, Dealers, SportChek franchisees, Mark's franchisees and
          Canadian Tire Petroleum agents. Assurance We received external third-party assurance with respect to our 2021 Climate Data Supplement claims and assertions, and certain waste metrics, which are explained further in this limited assurance statement . We did not seek or receive external assurance from third parties with
          respect to other information. Forward-looking Information Certain statements made in our ESG Report, including those related to our ESG targets and strategies, may constitute forward-looking information under applicable securities laws. Such statements include, but are not limited to, the
          Corporation’s 2030 GHG emissions reduction target and 2022 operational waste diversion target. The Company is not required under securities laws to prepare or file this ESG Report, and the information contained herein should
          therefore not be read as necessarily rising to the same level of materiality of disclosure required in our securities law filings. These statements are being provided for the purposes of assisting readers in understanding our
          approach to key ESG topics, strategies and initiatives, and in obtaining a better understanding of our anticipated operating environment. Readers are cautioned that such information may not be appropriate for other purposes. Although CTC believes that the forward-looking information in this ESG Report is based on information, assumptions and beliefs that are current, reasonable and complete, this information is necessarily subject to a number of
          factors, risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from management's expectations and plans as set forth in such forward-looking information. For more information on the risks, uncertainties and
          assumptions that could cause CTC’s actual results to differ from current expectations, refer to section 10.0 (Key Risks and Risk Management) of the Company's 2021 Management’s Discussion and Analysis as well as CTC’s other public
          filings, available at www.sedar.com and at https://investors.canadiantire.ca . Unless otherwise indicated, the forward-looking information contained in this ESG Report describes our current expectations and, accordingly, is subject to change after the initial publication of this ESG Report on September 15,
          2022. CTC does not undertake to update any forward-looking information, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by the Company, or on its behalf, to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as
          is required by applicable securities laws. Glossary Term Definition Board Refers to the CTC Board of Directors. Canadian Tire Refers to the general merchandise retail and services business carried on under the Canadian Tire name and trademarks. Canadian Tire Financial Services Refers to the business carried on by the Company’s financial services subsidiaries, namely Canadian Tire Bank. Canadian Tire Petroleum Refers to the retail petroleum business carried on under the Canadian Tire and Gas+ names and trademarks. CT REIT Refers to the business carried on by CT Real Estate Investment Trust and its subsidiaries. CTC or the Company Refers to Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited, its predecessor corporations and all entities controlled by it and their collective businesses, unless the context otherwise requires. Dealers Refers to independent third-party operators of Canadian Tire and Party City stores across the country. DIB Refers to diversity, inclusion and belonging. ERGs Refers to employee resource groups. ESG Refers to “environmental, social and governance”, and encompasses the range of issues a company manages that are related to sustainable development, including environmental protection, social responsibility, and good governance. Helly Hansen Refers to the international wholesale and retail businesses that operate under the Helly Hansen and Musto brands. Jumpstart Refers to Canadian Tire Jumpstart Charities. Mark's Refers to the retail and wholesale businesses carried on by Mark’s Work Wearhouse Ltd. under the Mark’s and L’Équipeur names and trademarks. Party City Refers to the party supply business that operates under the Party City name and trademarks. PartSource Refers to stores operated under the PartSource name and trademark. SportChek Refers to the retail business carried on by FGL Sports Ltd., including stores operated under the SportChek, Sports Experts, Atmosphere, National Sports, Sports Rousseau and Hockey Experts names and trademarks. Note on trade names, trademarks and service marks This ESG Report contains trade names, trademarks, and service marks of CTC and other organizations, all of which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trade names, trademarks, and service marks
          referred to herein appear without the ® or TM symbol. Corporate Home Office 2180 Yonge Street Toronto, ON M4P 2V8 416-480-3000 Customer Relations 1-800-387-8803 (English) 1-800-565-3356 (French) linked in twitter About Us Our Leadership Team Board of Directors Consumer Brands Division Supplier Opportunities Triangle Our Banners Canadian Tire Retail SportChek Mark's Canadian Tire Financial Services Helly Hansen Gas + Atmosphere Sports Experts Pro Hockey Life Trio Hockey PartSource CT REIT Party City Careers Corporate Careers Tech Careers Retail Careers Campus Careers Dealer and Gas+ Retailer Opportunities Distribution Centre Careers Call Centre Careers Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging Environmental, Social and Governance Our Approach ESG Reporting People & Community Environment Responsible Sourcing Governance Investors Financial Reporting Financial News Events & Presentations Shareholders Debtholders Corporate Governance Investor Resources Media News Releases Media Highlights Product Recalls Media Inquiries COVID-19 Copyright © Canadian Tire Corporation, Limited 1997 – Website Terms & Conditions Privacy, Security & Accessibility Site Map Powered By Q4 Inc. 5.90.0.6 (opens in new window)